# Migrating from v1 to v2

This doc summarises the breaking changes introduced in v2 and what you need to do to update your projects to work with it.

- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Wrapping a function](#wrapping-a-function)
- [Dependency injection](#dependency-injection)
- [Services](#services)
  - [RequestService](#requestservice)
  - [SQSService](#sqsservice)
- [Models](#models)
  - [StatusModel](#statusmodel)
  - [SQSMessageModel](#sqsmessagemodel)

The new version of dependency injection does not work if code is minified. See [Notes](../../README.md#notes) in the main readme for how to turn this off in webpack.

## Configuration

v1 required several consts with shouty names. In v2 these are replaced with a single config object with camel-case keys. You pass this to the new `configure` method to get a configured instance of `LambdaWrapper`.

Instead of this:

```js
// src/config/Configuration.js
import { DEFINITIONS as CORE_DEFINITIONS } from '@comicrelief/lambda-wrapper';

import { MyService } from '@/src/services/MyService';

export const DEFINITIONS = {
  ...CORE_DEFINITIONS,
  MY_SERVICE: 'MY_SERVICE',
};

export const DEPENDENCIES = {
  [DEFINITIONS.MY_SERVICE]: MyService,
};

export const QUEUE_DEFINITIONS = {
  MY_QUEUE: 'MY_QUEUE',
};

export const QUEUES = {
  [QUEUE_DEFINITIONS.MY_QUEUE]: process.env.SQS_MY_QUEUE,
};

export default {
  DEFINITIONS,
  DEPENDENCIES,
  QUEUE_DEFINITIONS,
  QUEUES,
};
```

do this:

```ts
// src/config/LambdaWrapper.ts
import lw from '@comicrelief/lambda-wrapper';

import { MyService } from '@/src/services/MyService';

export const lambdaWrapper = lw.configure({
  dependencies: {
    MyService,
  },
  sqs: {
    queues: {
      myQueue: process.env.SQS_MY_QUEUE as string,
    },
  },
});
```

## Wrapping a function

Rather than passing in a config object everywhere you use Lambda Wrapper, you now simply use the configured instance.

v2 also drops support for callback-style async. Use promises instead.

Finally, there is no longer a `request` parameter provided to your wrapped function. You can get this from `di` if you need it.

Instead of this:

```js
import { LambdaWrapper } from '@comicrelief/lambda-wrapper';

import { CONFIGURATION, DEFINITIONS } from '@/src/config/Configuration';

export default LambdaWrapper(CONFIGURATION, (di, request, done) => {
  // ...
  done(null, response);
});
```

do this:

```ts
import lambdaWrapper from '@/src/config/LambdaWrapper';

export default lambdaWrapper.wrap(async (di) => {
  const request = di.get(RequestService);
  // ...
  return response;
});
```

If your project doesn't add any additional services to dependency injection, you can also now use `lambdaWrapper` straight out of the box:

```ts
import lambdaWrapper from '@comicrelief/lambda-wrapper';

export default lambdaWrapper.wrap(async (di) => {
  // ...
});
```

## Dependency injection

As you'll have seen in the above examples, dependencies are no longer identified by a `DEFINITIONS` string. The `get` method now takes the dependency class directly.

Instead of this:

```js
import { LambdaWrapper } from '@comicrelief/lambda-wrapper';

import { CONFIGURATION, DEFINITIONS } from '@/src/config/Configuration';

export default LambdaWrapper(CONFIGURATION, (di, request, done) => {
  const logger = di.get(DEFINITIONS.LOGGER);
  const myService = di.get(DEFINITIONS.MY_SERVICE);
  // ...
});
```

do this:

```ts
import { LoggerService, RequestService } from '@comicrelief/lambda-wrapper';

import lambdaWrapper from '@/src/config/LambdaWrapper';
import { MyService } from '@/src/services/MyService';

export default lambdaWrapper.wrap(async (di) => {
  const logger = di.get(LoggerService);
  const request = di.get(RequestService);
  const myService = di.get(MyService);
  // ...
});
```

`get` will also always throw an error when used in a constructor to avoid surprises where other dependencies may be `undefined`. Instead of storing references to dependencies in class members, `get` them just before use.

A further breaking change in v2 is that all dependencies _must_ extend `DependencyAwareClass`. This is enforced at the type level and also at runtime, for those using plain JavaScript. Remember to add a call to `super` if you are overriding the constructor.

The `definitions` property has been removed.

The `getEvent`, `getContext` and `getConfiguration` methods have been deprecated and will be removed in a future major release. Use the `event`, `context` and `config` properties directly.

## Services

There are some small breaking changes to the built-in services. We've tried to minimise disruption here, so most of these are unlikely to affect real-world applications, but are included in the 2.0.0 release as a precaution.

### `RequestService`

Header names returned by `getAllHeaders` are now lowercased. This is consistent with many other libraries (e.g. `http`, `axios`) and makes it easier to work with HTTP headers. In some cases it may be easier to change existing code to use `getHeader`, which has provided case-insensitive access to headers since [v1.2.0](https://github.com/comicrelief/lambda-wrapper/releases/tag/v1.2.0).

### `SQSService`

In v1, the default behaviour of `publish` was to catch any error thrown while sending the message to SQS. In v2, this has been changed and it will now throw an error by default. In most scenarios this is the more intuitive mode, as it ensures that the caller is made aware of any SQS-related failure. To maintain the old behaviour, you can pass `"catch"` in the `failureMode` parameter.

```js
// v1
sqs.publish(queue, message);
// v2 equivalent
sqs.publish(queue, message, undefined, 'catch');
```

The type of `publish`'s `messageGroupId` parameter is `string | undefined`. In v1, the default value if not using message groups was `null`. This will now be rejected by TypeScript; use `undefined` instead. `null` will continue to work if you are not using TypeScript.

## Models

The `Model` base class has been removed. It's hard to make it type-safe (it tries to dynamically call setter methods) and we do modelling and validation differently now, using our [data-models](https://github.com/comicrelief/data-models) repo which is based around [Yup](https://github.com/jquense/yup).

The `MarketingPreference` model is removed, as this is application-specific and again is replaced by our [data-models](https://github.com/comicrelief/data-models) repo.

The `StatusModel` model has been replaced by a simple object type. See the [StatusModel](#statusmodel) section below.

Other models (`ResponseModel`, `SQSMessageModel`) are largely unaffected except that they no longer inherit from a common `Model` class.

### `StatusModel`

Service statuses are now simple objects with the `ServiceStatus` type. The `STATUS_TYPES` object has also been removed in favour of a string union type.

Instead of this:

```js
import { StatusModel, STATUS_TYPES } from '@comicrelief/lambda-wrapper';

async function checkStatus() {
  const result = new StatusModel('My service', STATUS_TYPES.OK);
  try {
    await testMyService(); // some function that throws if there's a failure
  } catch (error) {
    result.setStatus(STATUS_TYPES.APPLICATION_FAILURE);
  }
  return result;
}
```

do this:

```ts
import { ServiceStatus, StatusValue } from '@comicrelief/lambda-wrapper';

async function checkStatus(): Promise<ServiceStatus> {
  let status: StatusValue;
  try {
    await testMyService(); // some function that throws if there's a failure
    status = 'OK';
  } catch (error) {
    status = 'APPLICATION_FAILURE';
  }
  return {
    service: 'My service',
    status,
  };
}
```

Note that we can keep `status` unset initially, and TypeScript will complain if you forget to set it before `checkStatus` returns.

### `SQSMessageModel`

The model constructor will now validate that `message` has all fields required of a received SQS message. This should not break existing applications that are using this model correctly, but is included in the 2.0.0 release as a precaution.

The class name has also changed from `Message` to `SQSMessageModel` in order to be consistent with the name exported from the package index. Again, this is not expected to break anything, and does not affect imports because the class is a default export.
